[Music]
seven morning habits that prevent you
from losing weight your morning sets the
tone for the rest of the day including
your diet schedule your morning rituals
determine whether you will eat a large
or small lunch and whether your body
will use up all the calories or store
them just in case in this video you'll
find scientific proof that there is a
connection between your habits and
imbalances in the body that cause extra
weight gain
before you start watching remember to
subscribe to our Channel and switch on
notifications this way you won't miss
anything exciting that happens on the
bright side of life every day seven you
refuse to eat a big breakfast
time of day when we eat is much more
important than what we eat
scientists from Tel Aviv University
proved that a diet that includes a big
breakfast and a light dinner is
extremely effective you might be
surprised but it can encourage greater
weight loss than other popular diets
based on frequent and light snacking in
addition a high-energy breakfast helps
people suffering from diabetes such a
way of eating decreases their need for
insulin the research involved 18 men and
11 women with an average age of 69 they
all suffered from both obesity and type
2 diabetes these people were divided
into two groups the first group followed
the be diet breakfast diet and had three
meals a day a substantial breakfast a
moderate lunch and a light dinner
the second group ate according to the
six M diet six meals diet which is
traditional for weight loss and diabetes
the main idea behind this diet is to
have six light meals throughout the day
including three snacks after three
months each member of the first group
the B D diet group had lost an average
of 11 pounds at the same time people
from the second group the 6 M diet group
put on about
three pounds all this is possible
because the speed of our metabolism
varies at different times of the day
it's better to consume your largest
amount of calories in the morning when
your metabolism is working more quickly
the main conclusion that scientists have
drawn is that you should never refuse to
eat a breakfast that's high in calories
as for your lunch it should be of medium
size and your dinner should be light 6
you don't walk in the sunshine sunlight
literally burns fat at least the white
also known as bad fat tissue this type
of fat is considered bad because of its
ability to store calories ideally you
burn those calories for energy if not
white fat accumulates and results in all
types of nasty things from obesity and
diabetes to heart disease researchers at
the University of Alberta in Edmonton
Canada conducted an experiment to prove
that white fat deposits become smaller
when you are exposed to sunlight the
explanation for this is that when the
blue light wavelengths that come from
the Sun penetrate your skin they reach
the fat cells after that the lipid
droplets become smaller and leave the
cells to put it another way when you
spend a lot of time in the Sun your
cells stop storing so much fat this
discovery is a real breakthrough and it
partially explains why people gain
weight during the winter when there is a
lack of sunlight just keep in mind that
spending too much time in the Sun isn't
a perfect idea either always be sure to
wear sunscreen 5 you forget to drink a
glass of water after waking up
the body of an adult is made up of 55%
to 60% water according to scientists if
this percentage is lower a person may
have problems with their health here's
an interesting fact an adult man
contains more water in his body than an
adult woman also people with excess
weight have less water in their system
than slimmer individuals in regards to
the percentage of water in the body
drinking a glass of water after waking
up is a really good idea when you wake
up your body is pretty dry after a long
period without water you may not feel
thirsty but your body really needs to
drink if you drink a couple of glasses
of water in the morning you rehydrate
your body in return your digestion
improves more over water accelerates the
process of metabolism which decreases
the risk of getting fat it also helps
the body to get rid of toxins Chris
Bailey the author of articles on
productivity decided to conduct an
experiment he made it a habit to begin
his morning with a glass of water he
tried to drink no less than 16 ounces of
water right after he woke up as a result
he managed to reduce his body fat from
17 percent to 10 percent for you don't
exercise along with the obvious
advantages of burning calories and
increasing the speed of your metabolism
morning exercises can help you decrease
your appetite a 2013 experiment
conducted at Northumbria University and
published in the British Journal of
nutrition revealed some amazing facts
researchers led by dr. Emma Stephenson
and PhD student Javier Gonzalez found
out that people who were used to doing
exercises before breakfast ate less food
throughout the day they didn't
experience any need to consume
unnecessary calories to compensate for
their earlier activities the explanation
is probably in the waking up effect of
exercises people who don't exercise in
the morning try to relieve the stress of
waking up by eating the research
revealed another surprising fact the
scientists found out that when people
exercise when hungry
they are 20% more efficient in terms of
losing weight than when they exercise
during the day 3 you save delicious
dishes for lunch or dinner
if you can't resist eating sweet or
baked foods do it in the first part of
the day this is another conclusion that
researchers from tel aviv university
came to a muffin eaten in the morning
we'll add fewer inches to your waist
than the same muffin eaten in the
evening besides eating a piece of cake
in the morning may even help you lose
some weight
the participants of the previously
mentioned research project who had a
breakfast high in carbohydrates and
proteins found it easy to stick to their
diet as for those who had to eat a low
calorie and therefore low carb breakfast
they had a tough time fighting their
cravings for a yummy bar of chocolate
moreover those participants who had a
big breakfast that included a treat a
piece of cake some chocolate or a
doughnut had lowered levels of ghrelin
the hunger hormone when people stick to
a strict diet they are usually pretty
hungry aren't they in such cases the
level of ghrelin Rises which makes your
metabolism slower if you want to avoid
this situation eat a big breakfast with
lots of variety and don't shy away from
dessert too you read the news in the
morning the fear and irritation that you
might feel when you scroll through the
morning news can have a negative effect
on your health and lead to weight gain
it's especially true if you suffer from
a chronic lack of sleep this is because
long-term stress causes stem cells to
turn into fat cells this was proved by a
study published in the journal Cell
Metabolism
in 2018 researchers led by Mary toriel
assistant professor of chemical and
systems biology at Stanford University
School of Medicine in California
explained how this works stress causes
the body to produce hormones which then
help the body to adapt to a new
environment if it is short term stress
new fat cells are not formed if it is
long term stress the
he brings into action the process of
saving calories in this case even if you
start eating less you won't be able to
lose weight until the stressful
situation ends one you underestimate the
help of your pets a dog can become a
good companion during your morning run
and a cat can make stretching or yoga
much more relaxing and enjoyable the
results of a people pets exercising
together study have shown that it's
actually easier for pet owners to
control their weight they are less
likely to miss their workout than those
people who exercise alone without a
furry companion
besides communication with a pet and
caring for it can give you positive
emotions that reduce the level of stress
otherwise to get rid of this stress you
would most likely try to soothe it with
a muffin or some chocolate chip cookies
let's conduct a study of our own and
figure out if there are more morning
people or night owls here if you don't
have any problems with waking up before
the Sun rises hit the like button and if
there's nothing you like better than to
laze around in your bed until midday
write your favorite morning activity in
the comments below I'll let you know
mine and it's sleeping it
[Music]
you